This example will show how to use the Parallel Tempering backend.

The underlying MC algorithm is VMMC, and the backend is aware of order
parameters (i.e., you can do umbrella sampling if you want) and external forces.
So all the configuration parameters used for VMMC are the same here. This
backend builds on the VMMC one implementing Parallel Tempering (PT) on top of
it. The PT is "truly" parallel, in that the code uses MPI to run the replica in
parallel, sinchronize them, attempt exchanges, etc.


COMPILING
this backend requires MPI, so it only gets compiled when using "make MPI=1". In
beetween compilations with and without MPI, a "make clean" is required.

USAGE:
To use the backend, the key "sim_type" in the input file should be set to
PT_VMMC.

The new parameters introduced in the input file are the following:

pt_temp_list = [list of temperatures with the usual syntax]
pt_attempt_every = 1000

the first is the list of the temperatures to be used in the replica and the
second is how many VMMC cycles (1 cycle = N cluster move attempts) to wait in
between replica exchange attempts.

The lenght of the list of temperatures specifies the number of replica. If the
number of MPI processes does not match the length of the temperature list, the
program will complain about it and abort.

The temperature list needs not to be sorted: but remember that configuration
exchange attempts are only performed on neighbouring replicas (neighbours in the
temperature list) at alternating times. This means that if the temperatures are
not sorted, temperatures that are close might not try to exchage configurations.
I cannot see why you might want this, but nevertheless it is allowed. The
program will spit out a warning if the temperature list is not sorted.


INPUT/OUTPUT: 
Each replica has its own configuration, trajectory and energy file. The program
assumes that if the input file contains

conf_file = pino.dat
trajcetory = traj.dat
last_conf = last.dat
energy_file = energy.dat

it will find N files (N being the number of MPI processes that it got started
with) called pino.dat0, pino.dat1, ..., pino.dat(N-1). It will then create
traj.dat0, traj.dat1, ..., traj.dat(N-1) as trajectories, and behave the same
way for the energy and last_conf file.

The program keeps track of the configuration id it has in the last column of the
energy file (and standard output if enabled). This allows to monitor if the
configurations do move in "temperature space".

One final remark about umbrella sampling. The order parameter does need to be
the same for all replica, so only one op_file is required. On the other hand,
the weights do not need to be the same: thus, if the keyword pt_common_weights
is set to 1, the program will read a single file for the weights, specified by
the weights_file keyword. If pt_common_weights is set to 0 (the default, if not
specified), the program will look for N files in the same way as it does for the
initial configuration.


RUNNING:
The code requires to be executed with "mpirun" or something similar.
 
EXAMPLE:
the example in this directory is a "bruteforce" calculation of the melting
temperature of a hairpin with a stem of length 8 and a loop of length 6.
Assuming the average-base representation, SantaLucia's model predicts melting
around 340K. We can thus set up a system with a suitable sequence (see
generated.top) and set up a PT_VMMC run with 4 replica at T = 325K, 335K, 345K
and 350K. By waiting long enough, we should be able to sample enough transitions
at all the temperatures to compute a yield of bound and unbound stated as a
function of temperature and thus estimate the melting temperature. A publishable
result this way might take quite a long time (at least a few days), but it
should be obvious before the end of the example (about an hour) that the
configurations do exchange in between temperatures (plot the last column in the
energy files) and that higher temperatures like more to be in an unbound state.
Of course this is not the optimal way to compute hairpin melting: an order
parameter and weights should be introduced to "flatten" the free energy profile
and increase the number of transitions. But this is just an example of how to
set up parallel tempering.

Flavio Romano






